Right, Stash is not that great, right?
We've all used stash?
Were we all happy with it?
No you weren't happy with it, okay?
You weren't happy at all.
You now want to be happy, though.
So we're going to be happy
by using work trees.
So work trees.
So the best way to describe is
like a little story, right?
You're on a worktree, foo_bar,
you're making the greatest progress ever.
You're in flow state,
everything's going great.
But then, emergency situation is needed
on main, some sort of bug there, so
what do you do?
Well, typically, we've been doing the
whole like git add, throw everything into
the stash, switch the branches,
make the changes, and then come back or
we could commit it and pull it and
try to figure out what's wrong.
We need to do something right?
Well, what's a little bit nicer is
worktrees, lemme show you how they work.
First off, a work tree,
often when we say this phrase,
what we mean is a linked working tree.
It's not your main tree,
the main tree is the one you you create
when you do a get innit or a git clone.
Those are the main working trees.
A linked working tree,
is just simply a branch from your
main tree, in its own state.
Remember, every commit can
rebuild the entirety of a repo.
Very very important you understand that
one point because this is where it's
really used right here.
And it's a little bit different because
the .git folder is not a folder,
it's just a file.
So, Let's do a little bit of this okay?.
First off you can do a git
worktree add <path>.
The base name of the path will
be used as the branch name.
If you don't know what basename is,
basename/foo/bar/baz.
So this will automatically use
your path as a branch name.
You can also add in the branch name if you
want it or you can just let it auto do it.
Git worktree list will list
out your available work trees.
If you wanna delete it, you can just
delete the work tree folder and
then call worktree prune,
or you can actually do a worktree remove
on the folder and it will do that.
Depending on how you want to go about it,
it can do either of.
The benefits is that it's super cheap
to make, pretty much like I said,
pretty much as cheap as a branch.
The real big con with the worktree is
if there's high branch setup cost.
So like if you NPM install everything JS
and it takes way too long to do anything,
well that's a problem, right?
And so if you have to build like a Rust
project and it takes minutes upon minutes,
you'll find yourself a little
bit more hesitant to use them
depending on how long it takes.
So, we're gonna create
a work tree in Hello Git and
I want to use foo bar as
the last item in the path.
So it creates the branch foo-bar.
My suggestion is just go back one folder,
from your root of hello git and
just use the just use dash,
dash or ../foo- bar.
And when we're done,
check out the Git folder.
So I'm gonna go like this, I'm going
to go git worktree add../foo-bar.
I think it probably already exists.
Nice, it doesn't.
Let's go.
There we go,
we prepared a new worktree and
it's been checked out at
this point right here.
So it created a new branch at this current
point, which means if I open up foobar,
you'll notice I'm in a repo.
I can tell that I'm in a Git repo, cuz I
have this nice little thing right here.
If I go git log, you can see revert E.
A + 9, merge,
you can see all of our commits in here.
We're in the same repo,
just on a different branch.
Now here's the best part about that.
Let's cat out the git log or
the git folder, remember,
it's not a folder anymore.
It actually just tells you, the file
just simply says, hey, I belong here.
And so it tells you where the main working
tree is, cuz this is a linked working
tree, which means that if I go like this,
them, let's see, I wanna make sure
I'm not actually accidentally
getting out over my skis here.
Yeah, I'm gonna do one little quick thing,
it's not in the notes, but
we'll just do it right here.
If I go like this, if I go foo,
put in some changes right here and
go git status and go git commit,
put in a little change really quickly.
Then I'm gonna go back to Hello Git,
if I go,
if I go get log foobar,
my changes right there, right?
Cause it's a linked working tree,
it's just another,
you just have another
entrance into your folder.
So that way you can actually
have two running copies, right?
So you could actually have
your feature development and
then just like mainline over here.
And so that way you can always,
you only have like two folders
you're really working on.
So anytime you need to like update code or
do some sort of like emergency switch,
you can do that and just leave your
working tree in whatever state it's in,
and then you never really switch branches.
So the idea is that branch switching
is almost like an anti-pattern.
Instead you just use worktrees constantly
to build everything, and that way you
never have to undo stashing just does not
exist, you just simply have the file or
the the branch out as its own
folder with its own state and
then when you're done you just prune
it you got you just get rid of it.
And so that's kind of like the idea, like
the ideal idea but you know you can also
just have like two versions of itself
where you switch branches all you want,
there's some moves.
And so if i go like this git worktree
list, it'll tell me my two work trees,
I have my main working tree right here,
and then I have this one,
which is my linked working tree, foobar.
Pretty cool, I like this one,
I really do like him.
Now, remember, there's two ways
you can delete them, of course, so
that means I can go rm -rf ../foo-bar.
And once I do that, if I go worktree list,
you'll see right here,
it knows that this thing no longer exists.
And you're probably thinking,
how does it know that it no longer exists?
It means not only is there a link from
your linked working tree to your main
line, your main line must also have that
information out to the linked worktree.
I'm not sure if I know where it is,
honestly,
just off the top of my head I think I do.
I bet, totally pre-planned.
Then you can see work trees, right?
So you can actually see it right here,
so you can see, here it is.
That, you can see what head
it's supposed to be at.
You can see the git dir.
So you'll notice that this
is no longer a thing.
It probably just stats out the file and
notices if the file's missing.
It just says, hey, this is a prunable
worktree, you've already deleted it.
And so that's how it effectively is
able to understand that I've deleted it
outside of git, so
now I can just go get worktree prune and
if I go get work tree list,
it's gone, right?
Awesome, I mean I think it's great.
I really like that, I love work trees.
They're absolutely fantastic, they just
solve that one really annoying problem of
having to switch things,
stash things, commit things early.
Any of that, all right.
All right we can, yeah,
I mean we can get worktree remove.
We don't need that,
we don't need to do that one too.
I do love work tree stuff,
they're just my favorite.
There is also end files
are really painful.
So if you have an end file,
if it's checked into the repo,
which would be a little unusual,
if that's the case, then you're fine.
But if it's not checked into the repo,
then you have like this whole,
like copying of your end file
around node modules goes great.
It just builds really fast so that just
works out, but everything else kind of
tends to be a little bit more of pain that
way, so just something to think about.